---
title: Learn in libft
author: chajeon
date: 2023-12-23 11:33:00 +0200
categories: ["42", circle0]
tags: ["42", Makefile, Linked List]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/sidebar.jpeg
  alt: Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Strasbourg
---

First project after piscine is **Libft**.  
In this project we recode lots of functions, most of them has explanation in man. But also we have to make the functions that doesn't exist.

## Makefile
In this subject we need Makefile. If you already done C 09 during the Piscine it will be not a problem. But if you see the Makefile for the first time I think you'll struggled a lot with Makefile also.

For understand Makefile I recommand this [youtube video](https://youtu.be/DtGrdB8wQ_8?feature=shared). It's quite long but he explained step by step.

So, the main point of Makefile is *gether of the shell commands*.
We just give the name to use more convinient.

It means when you want to make some file like .c file to .o you have to look for comfile command for linux not just try to looking for exact Makefile what you want on the internet.

## My mistakes
Now I'm gonna share my mistakes.

First, my mistake was in calloc. I had to **check int overflow** with calloc but I missed it. Cause that's one of big different between malloc.

Second, uses of free(). I thought when we some string like this free(str) the str is automatically become NULL but other friend told me it doesn't work like that so I have to assign NULL directly after free.

```c
void *somefunc(chat *str){
  free(str)
  str = NULL;
  return (NULL);
}

arr = somefunc(arr);
```

Like this, we have to **return NULL**.

Last one was in strjoin(), in this function we have to **send new string** so even though we just want to send back str1 or str2 we have to make new string and put same contents inside and resend it.

And actually those mistakes are not checked by moulinette but it'll be a problem in peer evaluation. So always check carefully!

## Linked List(Bonus Part)

In bonus part we have to make linked list by using struct data type.
Struct is a way to make our own data type.

We can put more then one data types like below.

```c
struct student{
  int age;
  char *name;
  char *hoby;
}
```

now we have data type student!
It's able to use like this.
```c
int main()
{
  struct student wakhoo;
  wakhoo->age = 99;
  wakhoo->name = "wakhoo";
  wakhoo->hoby = "sleep";
}
```

with struct type we made data for node.
And after we follow the our document we done to making the fuctions for linked list!

So when you feel lost during bonus you can check the logic of the Linked list.

P.S. In here this was not big matter but when we get fuction as a parameter we also have to check the function parameter is null or not.
