---
title: GitBlog Setting(Chirpy)
author: chajeon
date: 2023-12-23 11:33:00 +0200
categories: [Info, Git Blog]
tags: [git blog, avatar center, chirpy, ruby 3.0, m1 macbook, brew remove]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
# image:
#   path: /assets/img/sidebar.jpeg
#   alt: Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Strasbourg
---


In this post I'm gonna share some settings that I struggled when I set my blog.

I'll start after forking Chirpy theme.

## Ruby 3.0 for m1 mac(brew remove)
I was trying bundle command in my project folder but the problem was occured because my macbook's ruby version was lower then 3.

So I have to install it but when I tried install it was stopping too long at [->make -8 j].

It was taking too long so I thought there's a problem with my homebrew so I try to remove but when I search normally there just telling remove amd version homebrew.
But I find the command

```bash
PATH=/opt/homebrew:$PATH arch -arm64 /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/uninstall.sh)"
```
I find in this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72890277/i-cant-uninstall-brew-on-macos-apple-silicon)

after this reinstall brew and I retry the commands below

```bash
brew install rbenv
rbenv install [version] #ex rbenv install 3.2.2
rbenv versions
rbenv global [version] #change the version
rbenv rehash
```
now it works! but it also takes time to install but it wasn't take too much like before! Kind of 5 ~ 10 mins take for me.

after this I could just fllow the tutorial.

## Edit theme(change image, center align, change colors)

First to change the image go to _config.yml
In there you will find two lines but privious setting.
If your not gonna use cdn you have to give empty string like me and you can set avatar image by putting your image in folder and give path like below.

```yml
img_cdn: ""

# the avatar on sidebar, support local or CORS resources
avatar: "/assets/img/prof.jpg"
```

To put the circle center of sidebar you now you have to go _sass/addon/commons.scss

In here you'll find #avatar{}
Then you just need to add one line.

```scss
#avatar{
	margin: 0 auto;
}
```
and if you want to algin title and subtitle on center you can do it on same file but like this

```scss
.site-title {
	text-align: center;
}
.site-subtitle {
	text-align: center;
}
```
Also for the colors you'd batter to change in _sass/colors/typography-dark(light).scss

It will be more easier to change in once!

One more to change sidebar image and set without weird height and weight you can try this

```scss
#sidebar {
  background: url('/assets/img/side.jpeg');
  background-repeat : no-repeat;
  background-size : cover;
  background-position: center;
}
```
